Hey guys welcome back to the course in this lecture we're going to talk about one of the worst nightmares
associated with contracting or really with employees in general.
It's what happens when you have a project you describe that project as well as you think you have but
the frequency just keeps coming back with substandard work.
Now what do I mean by this I mean that maybe you asked a freelancer to design your web site and everything
they send back to you is just much lower quality than you thought it would be or you asked for an application
development and they sent it back to you and an all the intangible things that you couldn't describe
in your application.
It's just not working well.
The load times bad certain sections just function.
Strangely certain things just don't look right.
It doesn't have the general look and feel that you want.
Those are often things that can be problems in a project that are much harder to specify at the beginning
of the project.
When you build specs sheets or overview sheets for your projects it's really easy to get the details
and the facts.
And this does this.
Right.
Because it's just they're just facts but look and feel and the way that certain pages should load and
transition and all that other stuff there's a lot of information and opportunity for problems that exist
in between the cracks of essentially of what you're describing.
So what happens when you have a freelancer keeps returning bad quality.
Well and previously we talked about using milestones to protect yourself from freelancers and getting
yourself in a situation where you're only paying for what you're proving.
So the best case scenario is that you prevented this or at least prevented the damage from this by setting
up a milestone system.
So what you'd say is after this milestones don't pay you X amount into the next month and three the
next money if there's a case where you're getting substandard work you can usually tell by the first
milestone.
Usually what'll happen is if you can tell it's substandard.
You need to make sure that you look and try to identify what exactly is wrong and then you need to see
whether or not you can make the freelancer or the contractor understand this is lower quality and this
is what it should be.
If you can get them to understand what it is they're doing wrong or why it's different then it's OK
to authorize them for the next milestone.
Now if you cannot even get them to recognize what they're doing wrong or they're becoming accusatory
saying it's it's something wrong with your specification sheets or your instructions that might be the
case that you probably need to consider cutting your losses and moving on to another freelancer.
Typically this only happens when you haven't described your project in enough detail or you didn't actually
put in the time or the effort to really take your time and vetting a freelancer.
A lot of times you post a project you don't maybe get a lot of bids if you follow this course you should
be getting a lot of bids but maybe you had to pick between two people that you weren't thrilled about.
In-general picking a freelancer should be an obvious decision there's always someone who is just WAY
above the other ones or at least considerably better than the other bids you have.
But if it's a case where you had to pick between two people who don't have reviews or two people who
don't have a huge amount of confidence in this could very often happen and you just understand that
this is a big risk that you could be taking.
So if you're having to pick between the lesser of two evils when it comes to a freelancer you might
need to reassess your project as a whole.
You might need to go back rework on your wireframe where you work on your description or try some of
the other platforms or keep rapid cycling your posts until you finally get someone who just clicks.
But in general my best practice is that you always have them on a milestone situation.
If you're lucky you didn't have to pay them up front and a lot of times that is negotiable.
They don't have reviews.
You could obviously say to them I'm going to pay this milestone after it's done and that you reserve
the right to terminate the contract if they simply don't hold up their end of the bargain.
Now you're going to be able to need to be able to describe what exactly is wrong and be OK with the
fact that you might end up losing a little bit of money but in the grand scheme of things you just saved
a ton of money down the road and you probably learned a ton about your project.
The point is not to get discouraged but to go back and reassess what exactly went wrong in the process.
Did you jump in your project without with the wrong freelance or did you jump on your project without
enough bids did you not properly vet the person did you pick someone that didn't have comparable applications
or comparable Web sites or projects that they've completed in the past.
Did you pick someone who has a great profile except for one or two reviews that are glaringly negative
with red flags.
Is that the case.
Go back try to pinpoint what exactly the problem is and honestly just start from scratch.
If you followed my advice before about milestones and about minimizing the legal cost or the problems
with the cash that you put up front then you should be fine.
You might end up raping your knees just a little bit but it's only a problem that people who are new
to this ever make.
And it doesn't even necessarily happen to everyone.
So try to take it in stride try to learn as much as you can in it and try your best to get the other
person to understand what they're doing wrong and try to correct course if it's impossible.
Make sure to cut your ties back out try this process over again and try to make the best logical detailed
argument you can to get at least the reasonable portion of the amount of money you paid back to you.
These are sticky situations.
They're a little bit hard.
There's not exactly a blueprint for going around this.
This is just from my experience really you just need to understand whether or not there's a miscommunication
and I understand whether or not it's something that can be remedied.
Do you guys have any horror stories or questions just post in the group discussion.
Otherwise we'll see in the next lecture.